TESTING.md, before:

# TESTING
## Validation

### HTML validation

No errors found in my html. This checking was done manually by copying the view page source code and pasting it into the validator.
There are warnings though, all of them being "The type attribute is unnecessary for JavaScript resources" for all cases of script implanted into templates.

The reports can be found here:
- [About Page](documentation/validation/html-validator-about.png)
- [Vendor pages: add_product](documentation/validation/html-validator-add-product.png)
- [Catalog](documentation/validation/html-validator-catalog.png)
- [Contact Us](documentation/validation/html-validator-contacts.png)
- [Vendor pages: edit product](documentation/validation/html-validator-edit-product.png)
- [FAQ page](documentation/validation/html-validator-faq.png)
- [Home](documentation/validation/html-validator-home.png)
- [User Account pages: Orders](documentation/validation/html-validator-order-history.png)
- [User Account pages: Personal Info](documentation/validation/html-validator-personal_info.png)
- [Product Detail](documentation/validation/html-validator-product-detail.png)
- [User Account: shipping addresses](documentation/validation/html-validator-shipping-addr.png)
- [Vendor pages: dashboard](documentation/validation/html-validator-vendor-dashboard.png)
- [Vendor pages: orders](documentation/validation/html-validator-vendor-orders.png)
- [User Account pages: wishlist](documentation/validation/html-validator-wishlist.png)


### CSS Validation

- [CSS validation report: base.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-base.png)
  - body Property `font-optical-sizing` doesn't exist : `auto`

  The font-optical-sizing CSS property does exist: 
   
   [Web Reference: font-optical-sizing](https://webreference.com/css/properties/font-optical-sizing/)

   [Mdn web docs: font-optical-sizing](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-optical-sizing)


  It is used to control whether text rendering is optimized for different sizes, improving legibility and aesthetics. 
  This property is particularly useful for fonts that have an optical size variation axis, which allows them to adjust the outlines of glyphs based on the font size and resolution. 
  This means that smaller text sizes may be rendered with thicker strokes for better contrast, while larger text sizes may appear more delicate with more contrast between strokes.\
  I use -__Inter__- as a font family which is a <ins>variable</ins> font and it does support the property.


    <ins>Values of font-optical-sizing</ins>\
    __auto:__ This is the default value and enables optical sizing. 
    It allows the browser to automatically adjust the font's design based on the size, optimizing it for legibility across different sizes.\
    __none:__ Disables optical sizing, meaning the font will not adjust its design based on size changes

- [CSS validation report: catalog.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-catalog.png)
- [CSS validation report: checkout.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-checkout.png)
- [CSS validation report: information.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-information.png.png)
- [CSS validation report: profile.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-profile.png)

__Explanation of the other Errors Revealed in Validator Results:__

All of the parse errors reported by W3C CSS validator are related to 'CSS nested rules', which the validator does not yet support, the 'nested CSS' syntax being a relatively new feature. 
The issue has been discussed in a number of places, particularly on GitHub issues , Reddit and some other less popular blogs.

It is acknowledged that such approach as CSS nesting reduces redundancy and simplifies the management of complex styles, leading to cleaner and more organized code. 
Additionally, CSS nesting aligns with the principles of modular design, which is especially in demand for complex and large-scale projects.
Moreover, CSS nesting is supported by all major modern browsers: 

| Browser Name: | Full support from: | Version released in: |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Chrome | version 120 | released in 2023 |
| Edge | version 120 | released in 2023 |
| Firefox | version 117 | released in 2023 |
| Safari | version 17.2 | released in 2023 |
| Opera | version 106 | released in 2023 |
| Chrome for Android | version 125 | released in 2024 |
| Safari on iOS | version 17.2 | released in 2023 |
| Samsung Internet | version 25 | released in 2024 |
| Opera Mobile | version 80 | released in 2023 |
| Firefox for Android | version 126 | released in 2024 |

[Link to 'Can I Use' reg Nesting Selector](https://caniuse.com/mdn-css_selectors_nesting)

[Using CSS Nesting Selector MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_nesting/Using_CSS_nesting)

### PEP 8
I used Flake8 package for checking the custom project folders for Python compliance in CLI.
- [Pep8: carols_home app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-carols-home.png)

'F401 imported but unused': 

'django.contrib.admin' in admin.py \
'django.db.models' in models.py\
'django.test.TestCase' in tests.py

The above files are empty except standard imports pre-filled by django when starting application.\
I deliberately left them unscathed to utilize these files in further development.

- [Pep8: carols_project folder CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-carols-project.png)

E501 line too long found in my settings.py, particularly for the following:
~~~
AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS = [
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.UserAttributeSimilarityValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.MinimumLengthValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.CommonPasswordValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.NumericPasswordValidator',
    },
]
~~~

I leave it as is because if I break it it will become quite less readable.

- [Pep8: cart app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-cart.png)

'F401 imported but unused': 

'django.contrib.admin' in admin.py \
'django.db.models' in models.py\
'django.test.TestCase' in tests.py

The above files are empty except standard imports pre-filled by django when starting application.

F841 local variable '_' is assigned but unused in views.py is related to :
~~~
except Exception as _:
        messages.error(
            request, "There was an error adding the product to your cart.")
~~~
I replaced `e` with an underscore _, which is a conventional way to indicate that a variable is intentionally unused. In this context I could use it for debugging, but in any case I don't want to confuse user with sophisticated messages.

- [Pep8: information app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-information.png)

Here we have the same three F401 'imported but unused' errors as these files are empty except automatically pre-populated imports in __admin.py__ , __models.py__ and __tests.py__.

- [Pep8: vendor app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-root-vendor.png)

E501 errors 'line too long' are found only in migrations files.\
The same F401 'imported but unused' fount in the empty tests.py.

- [Pep8: checkout app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-checkout.png)

F401 'checkout.signals' imported but unused:
~~~
from django.apps import AppConfig


class CheckoutConfig(AppConfig):
    default_auto_field = 'django.db.models.BigAutoField'
    name = 'checkout'

    def ready(self):
        import checkout.signals
~~~

It's common to import the signals module in the AppConfig.ready() method to ensure that signal handlers are connected when the application starts.

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.

- [Pep8: products app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-products.png)

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.

- [Pep8: user_profile app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-profile.png)

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.


### JS Validation


The full JSHint report is [here](documentation/validation/jshint_report_carols_whimsy.pdf)

As a summary, I must state that no errors on the custom script, all 'undefined variables' warnings are caused by the vendors' scripts (like Bootstrap, Swiper or MailChimp) which define them in their external files with links placed earlier in the code.


## Responsiveness

Checked on real devices: Desktop, MacBook Pro, Ipad Mini, iPhone14 Pro, iPhoneSE, Samsung Galaxy M33.\
Checked in Chrome DevTools and FireFox Inspect mode.\
Checked in Responsive Viewer extension for Chrome.

- Swiper home page

![Home page swiper](documentation/responsive/home_carols_swiper.gif)

Full GIF Report of Responsive Viewer is [here](documentation/responsive/responsive.md).

## Lighthouse

- Home Page 

![Home page](documentation/lighthouse/home_page.png)

Full screens report is [here](documentation/lighthouse/lighthouse.md).


## Manual Testing

### Segmented by User Story Themed Groups 
All references to User Stories are mapped using numbers as per my [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Acreated-asc) for the project. 

__NOTE!__: 
- To see all issues the filter `is:open` must be removed or follow [this link](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Acreated-asc)
- The protocol on manual testing refers only those User Stories that are not immediately obvious and worth testing from my perspective.


| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Product presentation__ | 
| 1 | Check Swiper links | Test all slides' captions and 'shop now' button for any wrong or broken links | [#1](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/1), [#4](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/4)  | 'Shop Now' leads to Catalog page, product cards are filtered in line with slide captions |
| 2 | Product search | Check if the words keyed in to the search bar trigger correct filters | [#3](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/3) | Checked both words and numbers, both leading to correct results, total count of products found in place. Note: sometimes it is not obvious why such result, one needs to get to product detail view to see why |
| 3 | Product filters | Test all filters accessible from the Our Brands navigation bar menu | [#29](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/29) | Checked 4 brands +1 All products from Our Brands menu. All filters work as expected, number of product found displayed correctly |
| 4 | Product filters | Test all filters accessible from the Shop navigation bar menu | [#29](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/29) | Tested 9 product categories, 16 themes, 4 seasons from Shop menu. All filters work as expected, number of product found displayed correctly |
| 5 | Sorting | Test price sorting ascending order | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting by selecting 'prices from low to high' from the select menu. Sorting implemented as expected. The 'low to high' selected option is displayed inside the select element |
| 6 | Sorting | Test price sorting descending order | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting by selecting 'prices from high to low' from the select menu. Sorting implemented as expected. The 'high to low' selected option is displayed inside the select element |
| 7 | Sorting after Filter | Test price sorting after applying a filter | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting after applying filters one-by-one. Sorting implemented within the filtered set only and correct. No conflicts found |
| 8 | Link to Product detail view | Check for broken or wrong links to product detail view | [#2](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/2) | the Links tested. All is good |
| | | __Shopping Cart features__ |
| 9 | Add to cart | Test add to cart button on the Product Detail view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The button adds product to the cart. Manifestations: Amount shown beside the cart icon increases, offcanvas cart shows the added product and quantity, Shopping cart view shows the product is there, the session object (a dictionary) logged and checked. Success message pops up temporarily in the toast style |
| 10 | Add to cart | Test adding to cart item "Pearl needle burst stem" quantity=2, repeat the same item quantity=1 from Product Detail view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The product item added to the cart first time (the log from session {"5": 2}), if the same item added second or multiple times, the new line in the cart is not added - only quantity of previously added item increases {"5": 3}. Tested for different products |
| 11 | Add to cart | Test add to cart button from Catalog view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The button adds product to the cart with the quantity = 1. |
| 12 | Cart saved to session | Test if the cart dictionary exists in the session if cart is not empty | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | After adding products to the cart the cart appears in the session. Tested multiple times and logged out the result to CLI: ex. {"5": 3, "8": 2, "47": 4}  |
| 13 | Offcanvas Cart element | Test shopping cart button toggle offcanvas cart | [#37](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/37) | the button shows offcanvas cart summary. Cart contents with quantities and cart totals are shown and correct |

- Item id=5 quantity=5 added to cart and saved to the user session

![Item 5 to the Cart](documentation/manual_tests/id5_added_to_cart.png)


| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Shopping Cart features__ | __continue..__ |
| 14 | Change quantity in Shopping Cart View | Test if "+/-" correctly updates quantities by 1  | [#8](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/8) | Clicking on "+" or "-" either increases or decreases quantity by 1 directly without any other buttons needed to confirm. Quantity updates in the cart content table accordingly |
| 15 | Remove line items from Cart | Test the "X" buttons to check if the item is removed  | [#7](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/7) | Clicking on "X" to the right end in the same line removes item |
| 16 | Clear entire Cart | Test if the underlined "Clear cart" link clears the cart  | [#38](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/38) | Clicking on "Clear cart" link clears the cart |
| 17 | Order summary | Test if the order summary on the side panel displays the correct numbers | [#66](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/66) | Checked. Saving = 0 if no promo code is utilized. Delivery costs amount to 10%, when the cart net totals are £50+ delivery costs are 0 |
| 18 | Cart Total in the Navbar | Test if the Cart total is displayed dynamically against the cart icon | [#36](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/36) | Checked. Cart total , i.e.  |

Commit message:

Reduce waiting time when checking for order to appear in order-pending template js

TESTING.md, after:

# TESTING
## Validation

### HTML validation

No errors found in my html. This checking was done manually by copying the view page source code and pasting it into the validator.
There are warnings though, all of them being "The type attribute is unnecessary for JavaScript resources" for all cases of script implanted into templates.

The reports can be found here:
- [About Page](documentation/validation/html-validator-about.png)
- [Vendor pages: add_product](documentation/validation/html-validator-add-product.png)
- [Catalog](documentation/validation/html-validator-catalog.png)
- [Contact Us](documentation/validation/html-validator-contacts.png)
- [Vendor pages: edit product](documentation/validation/html-validator-edit-product.png)
- [FAQ page](documentation/validation/html-validator-faq.png)
- [Home](documentation/validation/html-validator-home.png)
- [User Account pages: Orders](documentation/validation/html-validator-order-history.png)
- [User Account pages: Personal Info](documentation/validation/html-validator-personal_info.png)
- [Product Detail](documentation/validation/html-validator-product-detail.png)
- [User Account: shipping addresses](documentation/validation/html-validator-shipping-addr.png)
- [Vendor pages: dashboard](documentation/validation/html-validator-vendor-dashboard.png)
- [Vendor pages: orders](documentation/validation/html-validator-vendor-orders.png)
- [User Account pages: wishlist](documentation/validation/html-validator-wishlist.png)


### CSS Validation

- [CSS validation report: base.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-base.png)
  - body Property `font-optical-sizing` doesn't exist : `auto`

  The font-optical-sizing CSS property does exist: 
   
   [Web Reference: font-optical-sizing](https://webreference.com/css/properties/font-optical-sizing/)

   [Mdn web docs: font-optical-sizing](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-optical-sizing)


  It is used to control whether text rendering is optimized for different sizes, improving legibility and aesthetics. 
  This property is particularly useful for fonts that have an optical size variation axis, which allows them to adjust the outlines of glyphs based on the font size and resolution. 
  This means that smaller text sizes may be rendered with thicker strokes for better contrast, while larger text sizes may appear more delicate with more contrast between strokes.\
  I use -__Inter__- as a font family which is a <ins>variable</ins> font and it does support the property.


    <ins>Values of font-optical-sizing</ins>\
    __auto:__ This is the default value and enables optical sizing. 
    It allows the browser to automatically adjust the font's design based on the size, optimizing it for legibility across different sizes.\
    __none:__ Disables optical sizing, meaning the font will not adjust its design based on size changes

- [CSS validation report: catalog.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-catalog.png)
- [CSS validation report: checkout.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-checkout.png)
- [CSS validation report: information.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-information.png.png)
- [CSS validation report: profile.css](documentation/validation/css-valid-profile.png)

__Explanation of the other Errors Revealed in Validator Results:__

All of the parse errors reported by W3C CSS validator are related to 'CSS nested rules', which the validator does not yet support, the 'nested CSS' syntax being a relatively new feature. 
The issue has been discussed in a number of places, particularly on GitHub issues , Reddit and some other less popular blogs.

It is acknowledged that such approach as CSS nesting reduces redundancy and simplifies the management of complex styles, leading to cleaner and more organized code. 
Additionally, CSS nesting aligns with the principles of modular design, which is especially in demand for complex and large-scale projects.
Moreover, CSS nesting is supported by all major modern browsers: 

| Browser Name: | Full support from: | Version released in: |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Chrome | version 120 | released in 2023 |
| Edge | version 120 | released in 2023 |
| Firefox | version 117 | released in 2023 |
| Safari | version 17.2 | released in 2023 |
| Opera | version 106 | released in 2023 |
| Chrome for Android | version 125 | released in 2024 |
| Safari on iOS | version 17.2 | released in 2023 |
| Samsung Internet | version 25 | released in 2024 |
| Opera Mobile | version 80 | released in 2023 |
| Firefox for Android | version 126 | released in 2024 |

[Link to 'Can I Use' reg Nesting Selector](https://caniuse.com/mdn-css_selectors_nesting)

[Using CSS Nesting Selector MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_nesting/Using_CSS_nesting)

### PEP 8
I used Flake8 package for checking the custom project folders for Python compliance in CLI.
- [Pep8: carols_home app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-carols-home.png)

'F401 imported but unused': 

'django.contrib.admin' in admin.py \
'django.db.models' in models.py\
'django.test.TestCase' in tests.py

The above files are empty except standard imports pre-filled by django when starting application.\
I deliberately left them unscathed to utilize these files in further development.

- [Pep8: carols_project folder CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-carols-project.png)

E501 line too long found in my settings.py, particularly for the following:
~~~
AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS = [
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.UserAttributeSimilarityValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.MinimumLengthValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.CommonPasswordValidator',
    },
    {
        'NAME': 'django.contrib.auth.password_validation.NumericPasswordValidator',
    },
]
~~~

I leave it as is because if I break it it will become quite less readable.

- [Pep8: cart app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-cart.png)

'F401 imported but unused': 

'django.contrib.admin' in admin.py \
'django.db.models' in models.py\
'django.test.TestCase' in tests.py

The above files are empty except standard imports pre-filled by django when starting application.

F841 local variable '_' is assigned but unused in views.py is related to :
~~~
except Exception as _:
        messages.error(
            request, "There was an error adding the product to your cart.")
~~~
I replaced `e` with an underscore _, which is a conventional way to indicate that a variable is intentionally unused. In this context I could use it for debugging, but in any case I don't want to confuse user with sophisticated messages.

- [Pep8: information app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-information.png)

Here we have the same three F401 'imported but unused' errors as these files are empty except automatically pre-populated imports in __admin.py__ , __models.py__ and __tests.py__.

- [Pep8: vendor app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-root-vendor.png)

E501 errors 'line too long' are found only in migrations files.\
The same F401 'imported but unused' fount in the empty tests.py.

- [Pep8: checkout app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-checkout.png)

F401 'checkout.signals' imported but unused:
~~~
from django.apps import AppConfig


class CheckoutConfig(AppConfig):
    default_auto_field = 'django.db.models.BigAutoField'
    name = 'checkout'

    def ready(self):
        import checkout.signals
~~~

It's common to import the signals module in the AppConfig.ready() method to ensure that signal handlers are connected when the application starts.

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.

- [Pep8: products app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-products.png)

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.

- [Pep8: user_profile app CLI report](documentation/validation/flake8/flake-user-profile.png)

E501 'line too long' errors are found only in migrations, automatically generated by Django.


### JS Validation


The full JSHint report is [here](documentation/validation/jshint_report_carols_whimsy.pdf)

As a summary, I must state that no errors on the custom script, all 'undefined variables' warnings are caused by the vendors' scripts (like Bootstrap, Swiper or MailChimp) which define them in their external files with links placed earlier in the code.


## Responsiveness

Checked on real devices: Desktop, MacBook Pro, Ipad Mini, iPhone14 Pro, iPhoneSE, Samsung Galaxy M33.\
Checked in Chrome DevTools and FireFox Inspect mode.\
Checked in Responsive Viewer extension for Chrome.

- Swiper home page

![Home page swiper](documentation/responsive/home_carols_swiper.gif)

Full GIF Report of Responsive Viewer is [here](documentation/responsive/responsive.md).

## Lighthouse

- Home Page 

![Home page](documentation/lighthouse/home_page.png)

Full screens report is [here](documentation/lighthouse/lighthouse.md).


## Manual Testing

### Segmented by User Story Themed Groups 
All references to User Stories are mapped using numbers as per my [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Acreated-asc) for the project. 

__NOTE!__: 
- To see all issues the filter `is:open` must be removed or follow [this link](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Acreated-asc)
- The protocol on manual testing refers only those User Stories that are not immediately obvious and worth testing from my perspective.


| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Product presentation__ | 
| 1 | Check Swiper links | Test all slides' captions and 'shop now' button for any wrong or broken links | [#1](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/1), [#4](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/4)  | 'Shop Now' leads to Catalog page, product cards are filtered in line with slide captions |
| 2 | Product search | Check if the words keyed in to the search bar trigger correct filters | [#3](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/3) | Checked both words and numbers, both leading to correct results, total count of products found in place. Note: sometimes it is not obvious why such result, one needs to get to product detail view to see why |
| 3 | Product filters | Test all filters accessible from the Our Brands navigation bar menu | [#29](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/29) | Checked 4 brands +1 All products from Our Brands menu. All filters work as expected, number of product found displayed correctly |
| 4 | Product filters | Test all filters accessible from the Shop navigation bar menu | [#29](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/29) | Tested 9 product categories, 16 themes, 4 seasons from Shop menu. All filters work as expected, number of product found displayed correctly |
| 5 | Sorting | Test price sorting ascending order | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting by selecting 'prices from low to high' from the select menu. Sorting implemented as expected. The 'low to high' selected option is displayed inside the select element |
| 6 | Sorting | Test price sorting descending order | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting by selecting 'prices from high to low' from the select menu. Sorting implemented as expected. The 'high to low' selected option is displayed inside the select element |
| 7 | Sorting after Filter | Test price sorting after applying a filter | [#34](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/34) | Tested sorting after applying filters one-by-one. Sorting implemented within the filtered set only and correct. No conflicts found |
| 8 | Link to Product detail view | Check for broken or wrong links to product detail view | [#2](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/2) | the Links tested. All is good |
| | | | | 
| | | __Shopping Cart features__ |
| 9 | Add to cart | Test add to cart button on the Product Detail view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The button adds product to the cart. Manifestations: Amount shown beside the cart icon increases, offcanvas cart shows the added product and quantity, Shopping cart view shows the product is there, the session object (a dictionary) logged and checked. Success message pops up temporarily in the toast style |
| 10 | Add to cart | Test adding to cart item "Pearl needle burst stem" quantity=2, repeat the same item quantity=1 from Product Detail view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The product item added to the cart first time (the log from session {"5": 2}), if the same item added second or multiple times, the new line in the cart is not added - only quantity of previously added item increases {"5": 3}. Tested for different products |
| 11 | Add to cart | Test add to cart button from Catalog view | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | The button adds product to the cart with the quantity = 1. |
| 12 | Cart saved to session | Test if the cart dictionary exists in the session if cart is not empty | [#6](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/6) | After adding products to the cart the cart appears in the session. Tested multiple times and logged out the result to CLI: ex. {"5": 3, "8": 2, "47": 4}  |
| 13 | Offcanvas Cart element | Test shopping cart button toggle offcanvas cart | [#37](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/37) | the button shows offcanvas cart summary. Cart contents with quantities and cart totals are shown and correct |

- Item id=5 quantity=5 added to cart and saved to the user session

![Item 5 to the Cart](documentation/manual_tests/id5_added_to_cart.png)


| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Shopping Cart features__ | __continue..__ |
| 14 | Change quantity in Shopping Cart View | Test if "+/-" correctly updates quantities by 1  | [#8](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/8) | Clicking on "+" or "-" either increases or decreases quantity by 1 directly without any other buttons needed to confirm. Quantity updates in the cart content table accordingly |
| 15 | Remove line items from Cart | Test the "X" buttons to check if the item is removed  | [#7](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/7) | Clicking on "X" to the right end in the same line removes item |
| 16 | Clear entire Cart | Test if the underlined "Clear cart" link clears the cart  | [#38](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/38) | Clicking on "Clear cart" link clears the cart |
| 17 | Order summary | Test if the order summary on the side panel displays the correct numbers | [#66](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/66) | Checked. Saving = 0 if no promo code is utilized. Delivery costs amount to 10%, when the cart net totals are £50+ delivery costs are 0 |
| 18 | Cart Total in the Navbar | Test if the Cart total is displayed dynamically against the cart icon | [#36](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/36) | Checked. Cart total , i.e. Order's grand total, is displayed with saving and delivery cost applied |
| | |  |
| | | __Checkout Features__ |
| 19 | Checkout shipping form | Test if the shipping details stored in the user session | [#9](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/9) | the shipping details from the filled form are saved into the user session | Checked for anonymous user: the details a saved on clicking the button "Continue" | 

- Passing from the checkout shipping form Step 1 to the checkout payment form Step 2 of the checkout flow.\
Details saved to the session.

![Shipping Details Saved to the session](documentation/manual_tests/shipping_saved_to_session.png)


| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Checkout Features__ | __continue..__ |
| 20 | Checkout shipping form | Test if the shipping details are kept in the form filled | [#53](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/53) | If the shipping form is submitted, whenever a customer returns to the checkout shipping form within the same session the form is filled |
| 21 | Checkout payment form | Test payment for appropriate messages when the form filled with invalid data or incomplete | [#9](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/9) | Checked different scenarios for different form fields. Messages are displayed clearly |

- Invalid data or form is incomplete

![Invalid payment form data messages](documentation/manual_tests/messages_card_element.png)

| num. | Test Name | Purpose | User Story | Findings
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| | |__Checkout Features__ | __continue..__ |
| 22 | Checkout card payment form | Test successful card payment with UK Mastercard 5555 5582 6555 4449 provided by Stripe| [#12](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/12) | Webhook received with the required and modified data, order  created in db, order confirmation page displayed with the correct data, order confirmation email received by the customer |
| 23 | Checkout PayPall payment | Test successful payment with the PayPal method | [#12](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/12) | Webhook received with the required and modified data, order created in db, order confirmation page displayed with the correct data, order confirmation email received by the customer |
| 24 | Checkout card payment form | Test card payment with  4000 0000 0000 9995 insufficient funds provided by Stripe| [#12](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/12) | Webhook received with the required and modified data, order  created in db, order confirmation page displayed with the correct data, order confirmation email received by the customer |
| 25 | Checkout PayPall payment | Test payment declined with the PayPal method | [#12](https://github.com/Mykola-CI/carols-whimsy/issues/12) | Webhook received with the required and modified data, order created in db, order confirmation page displayed with the correct data, order confirmation email received by the customer |
